 remember George Washington? You know how he died? Well meaning physicians bled him to death,
 and this was the most important patient in the country, maybe in the history of the country,
 and we bled him to death trying to help him. So when you're actually inflating the money supply
 at 7% but you're calling it 2% because you want to help the economy, you're literally bleeding
 the free market to death. But the sad fact is George Washington went along with it because he
 thought that they were going to do him good, and the majority of the society, most companies,
 most conventional thinkers, you know, the working class, they go along with this because they think
 that someone has their best interest of mind, and the people that are bleeding them to death
 believe, they believe that prescription because their mental models are just so defective.
 The following is a conversation with Michael Saylor, one of the most prominent and brilliant
 Bitcoin proponents in the world. He is the CEO of MicroStrategy, founder of Saylor Academy,
 graduate of MIT, and Michael is one of the most fascinating and rigorous thinkers I've ever gotten
 a chance to explore ideas with. He can effortlessly zoom out to the big perspectives of human
 civilization and human history, and zoom back in to the technical details of blockchains, markets,
 governments, and financial systems. This is the Lex Friedman podcast. To support it,
 please check out our sponsors in the description. And now, dear friends, here's Michael Saylor.
 Here's Michael Saylor. Let's start with a big question of truth and wisdom. When advanced humans
 or aliens or AI systems, let's say five to ten centuries from now, look back at Earth
 on this early 21st century, how much do you think they would say we understood about
 money and economics, or even about engineering, science, life, death, meaning, intelligence,
 consciousness, all the big interesting questions?
 I think they would probably give us a
 B minus on engineering, on all the engineering things, the hard sciences.
 A passing grade.
 Like, we're doing okay. We're working our way through rockets and jets and electric cars and
 an electricity transport systems and nuclear power and space flight and the like. And if you look at
 the walls that grace the great court at MIT, it's full of all the great thinkers and they're all
 pretty admirable. If you could be with Newton or Gauss or Madame Curie or Einstein, you would
 respect them. I would say they'd give us like a D minus on economics, like an F plus or a D minus.
 You have an optimistic vision. First of all, optimistic vision of engineering,
 because everybody you've listed, not everybody, but most people you've listed is just over the
 past couple of centuries. And maybe it stretches a little farther back, but mostly all the cool
 stuff we've done in engineering is the past couple of centuries.
 I mean, Archimedes had his virtues. I studied the history of science at MIT and I also studied
 aerospace engineering. And so I clearly have a bias in favor of science. And if I look at the
 past 10,000 years and I consider all of the philosophy and the politics and their impact
 on the human condition, I think it's a wash for every politician that came up with a good idea,
 another politician came up with a bad idea. And it's not clear to me that most of the
 political and philosophical contributions to the human race and the human conditions
 have advanced so much. I mean, we're still taking guidance and admiring Aristotle and
 Plato and Seneca and the like. And on the other hand, if you think about what has made the human
 condition better, fire, water, harnessing of wind energy, try to row across an ocean, right?
 Not easy.
 And for people who are just listening or watching, there's a beautiful sexy ship from
 16th, 17th century.
 This is a 19th century handmade model of a 17th century sailing ship, which is of the type that
 the Dutch East India's company used to sail the world and trade. So that was made, the original
 was made sometime in the 1600s. And then this model is made in the 19th century by individuals.
 So both the model and the ship itself is engineering at its best. And just imagine,
 just like rockets flying out to space, how much hope this filled people with,
 exploring the unknown, going into the mystery, both the entrepreneurs and the business people
 and the engineers and just humans. What's out there? What's out there to be discovered?
 Yeah, the metaphor of human beings leaving shore or sailing across the horizon,
 risking their lives in pursuit of a better life is an incredibly powerful one.
 In 1900, I suppose the average life expectancy is 50. During the Revolutionary War,
 while our founding fathers were fighting to establish life, liberty, pursuit of happiness,
 the Constitution, average life expectancy is like 32, somewhere between 32 and 36.
 So all the sound and the fury doesn't make you live past 32, but what does, right? Antibiotics.
 Conquest of infectious diseases. If we understand the science of infectious disease, sterilizing
 a knife and harnessing antibiotics gets you from 50 to 70. And that happened fast, right? That
 happens from 1900 to 1950 or something like that. And I think if you look at the human condition,
 you ever get on one of those rowing machines where they actually keep track of your watts output when
 you're on that? Yeah. It's like 200 is a lot. Okay, 200 is a lot. So a kilowatt hour is like all
 the energy that a human, a trained athlete can deliver in a day. And probably not 1% of the
 people in the world could deliver a kilowatt hour in a day. And the commercial value of a kilowatt
 hour, the retail value is 11 cents today. And the wholesale value is 2 cents. And so you have to look
 at the contribution of politicians and philosophers and economists to the human condition. And it's
 like at best a wash one way or the other. And then if you look at the contribution of John D.
 Rockefeller when he delivered you a barrel of oil and the energy in oil, liquid energy, or the
 contribution of Tesla as we deliver electricity. And what's the impact on the human condition if I
 have electric power, if I have chemical power, if I have wind energy, if I can actually set up a
 reservoir, create a dam, spend a turbine, and generate energy from a hydraulic source?
 That's extraordinary, right? And so our ability to cross the ocean, our ability to grow food,
 our ability to live, it's technology that gets the human race from a brutal life where life
 expectancy is 30 to a world where life expectancy is 80.
 You gave a D minus to the economists. So are they too like the politicians a wash
 in terms of there's good ideas and bad ideas and that tiny delta between good and bad?
 Is how you squeak past the F plus onto the D minus territory?
 I think most economic ideas are bad ideas.
 Most.
 You know, like take us back to MIT and you want to solve a fluid dynamics problem. Like design
 the shape of the hull of that ship, or you want to design an airfoil, a wing, or if you want to
 design an engine or a nozzle in a rocket ship, you wouldn't do it with simple arithmetic.
 You wouldn't do it with a scaler. There's not a single number, right? It's vector math.
 You know, computational fluid dynamics is n dimensional, higher level math,
 you know, complicated stuff. So when an economist says the inflation rate is
 2%, that's a scaler. And when an economist says it's not a problem to print more money,
 because the velocity of the money is very low, monetary velocity is low, that's another scaler.
 Okay, so the truth of the matter is inflation is not a scaler. Inflation is an n dimensional vector.
 Money velocity is not a scaler.
 The saying, what's the velocity of money? Oh, it's slow or it's fast. It ignores the question of
 what medium is the money moving through. And the same way that, you know, what's the speed of sound?
 Okay, well, what is sound, right? Sound, you know, sound is a compression wave. It's energy
 moving through a medium, but the speed is different. So for example, the speed of sound through air is
 different than the speed of sound through water. And sound moves faster through water,
 it moves faster through a solid, and it moves faster to a stiffer solid. So there isn't one.
 What is the fundamental problem with the way economists reduce the world down to a model?
 Is it too simple? Or is it just even the first generation?
 I think that the fundamental problem is, if you see the world as a scaler, you simply pick
 the one number which is, which supports whatever you want to do, and you ignore the universe of
 other consequences from your behavior. In general, I don't know if you've heard of the
 Eric Weisen has been talking about this with gauge theory. So different kinds of approaches
 from the physics world, from the mathematical world to extend past this scaler view of economics.
 So gauge theory is one way that comes from physics. Do you find that a way of exploring economics
 interesting? So outside of cryptocurrency, outside of the actual technology,
 and so on, just analysis of how economics works. Do you find that interesting?
 Yeah, I think that if we're going to want to really make any scientific progress in economics,
 we have to apply much, much more computationally intensive and richer forms of mathematics.
 So simulation, perhaps, or?
 Yeah, you know, when I was at MIT, I studied system dynamics at MIT.
 You know, when I was at MIT, I studied system dynamics. You know, they taught it at the Sloan
 School. It was developed by Jay Forrester, who was an extraordinary computer scientist.
 And when we created models of economic behavior, they were all multi dimensional nonlinear models.
 So if you want to describe how anything works in the real world, you have to start with the concept
 of feedback. If I double the price of something, demand will fall, and attempts to create supply
 will increase, and